feat: Over aggregations in Flink SQL (#52)
confluentinc/tutorials: over-aggregations/flinksql/README.md

<!-- title: How to perform OVER Aggregations in Flink SQL -->
<!-- description: In this tutorial, learn how to use Flink SQL's OVER aggregation to compute an aggregated value for every row over a range of ordered rows, with step-by-step instructions and supporting code. -->

# Perform an aggregation for all rows

> When you perform an aggregation in SQL, the query reduces the number of result rows to one for every group specified in the `GROUP BY`.  But [OVER aggregates](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/over-agg/#over-aggregation) do not reduce the number of result rows to a single row for every group, instead they produce an aggregated value for every input row.  OVER aggregations also serve as the basis for more advanced queries like [Top-N](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/topn/#top-n), [Window Top-N](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/window-topn/#window-top-n), and [Deduplication](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/deduplication/#deduplication). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you perform an aggregation in SQL, generally the query reduces the number of result rows to one for every group specified in the `GROUP BY`.  In contrast, [OVER aggregates](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/over-agg/#over-aggregation) do not reduce the number of result rows to a single row for every group; instead, they produce an aggregated value for every input row.  OVER aggregations also serve as the basis for more advanced queries like [Top-N](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/topn/#top-n), [Window Top-N](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/window-topn/#window-top-n), and [Deduplication](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/deduplication/#deduplication). 
```

## Setup

> Let's assume the following DDL for our base `movie_views` table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's assume the following DDL for a `movie_views` table representing streaming movie service subscriber views:
```

#### Run the test

Run the following command to execute [FlinkSqlOverAggregationTest#testTopN](src/test/java/io/confluent/developer/FlinkSqlOverAggregationTest.java):

  ```plaintext
  ./gradlew clean :over-aggregations:flinksql:test
  ```

The test starts Kafka and Schema Registry with [Testcontainers](https://testcontainers.com/), runs the Flink SQL commands
above against a local Flink `StreamExecutionEnvironment`, and ensures that the aggregation results are what we expect.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Flink SQL Client CLI</summary>

#### Prerequisites

* Docker running via [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/) or [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
* [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/). Ensure that the command `docker compose version` succeeds.

#### Run the commands

First, start Flink and Kafka:

  ```shell
  docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose-flinksql.yml up -d
  ```

Next, open the Flink SQL Client CLI:

  ```shell
  docker exec -it flink-sql-client sql-client.sh
  ```

Finally, run following SQL statements to create the `movie_views` table backed by Kafka running in Docker, populate it with

> test data, and run the Top-N query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
test data, and run the OVER aggregation query.
```

            Pride and Prejudice                        Romance       2024-04-23 23:37:00.000                    1
The Pride of Archbishop Carro~                       History       2024-04-24 03:37:00.000                    1

```                                                                                 

When you are finished, clean up the containers used for this tutorial by running:

  ```shell
  docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose-flinksql.yml down
  ```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Confluent Cloud</summary>

#### Prerequisites

* A [Confluent Cloud](https://confluent.cloud/signup) account
* A Flink compute pool created in Confluent Cloud. Follow [this](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/flink/get-started/quick-start-cloud-console.html) quick start to create one.

#### Run the commands

In the Confluent Cloud Console, navigate to your environment and then click the `Open SQL Workspace` button for the compute
pool that you have created.

Select the default catalog (Confluent Cloud environment) and database (Kafka cluster) to use with the dropdowns at the top right.

> Finally, run following SQL statements to create the `movie_views` table, populate it with test data, and run the windowed Top-N query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, run following SQL statements to create the `movie_views` table, populate it with test data, and run the OVER aggregation query.
```
